SAM THOROGOOD: Hey, everyone.
It's Sam here.
On this very short episode of
today's Santa Tracker Developer
Diary, I want to
talk about SVGs.
These are the lovely
responsive images
that we use all over the
place in Santa Tracker.
Our houses, our elves,
our cute little scenes
are all SVGs with only a
few PNGs to sort of round
out the edges.
Now, a disclaimer.
I'm not a designer.
I didn't make these SVGs.
And what I want
to tell you today
is about how I, as an engineer,
will work with these SVGs
to make them smaller and
better for your users.
So let's have a look.
So when you think of SVGs,
this is what you might expect.
You will see an SVG tag.
You'll see a few other things.
And this is basically XML.
SVG is really two things.
It's mockup and content.
So this is very normal.
The mockup looks
very structured.
However, when we actually
ship our assets to users,
we use a tool called SVGO--
and there's an online version,
which is in the resources
below--
to convert these files to
something that's very small.
What's important to remember
is this really just shrinks
the mockup.
It doesn't shrink the
content in any way.
So if you have too much content,
which I'll explain in a second,
your file size will go
down, but not enormously.
The sort of assets we deal
with are reasonably large SVGs.
Quite simply, when I try
to think about my SVGs
and how I can make them
smaller, I'll just sort by size
and maybe pick on
the biggest file.
So in this case, we've got
two Easter egg trees here.
And actually, the old one
is the one we had last year.
And the new one, the lower one,
is the one we had this year.
They look exactly the same.
So why are they
different in size?
Let's have a look
at the old version.
So on my Mac, I've got Sketch.
But you might be
using some other tool
on a different platform.
This asset looks fine.
It looks the same
as the new one.
And actually, it's
still reasonably small.
It's about 150k, which for a
complicated asset with lots
of small detail,
does make sense.
But it's worth
looking at your SVGs,
especially considering that
the tools that generate these,
they're computer programs, too.
And they also make mistakes.
So let's look at this
tree we've now opened.
So it looks pretty good.
It's about 150k,
which makes sense.
It's a complicated
tree, and there's
a lot of fine detail on the
bottom with the different elves
and so on.
But if we dig around
this XML file,
we can actually see that
these dots at the bottom here,
the totems I guess
you'd call them,
are actually made
up of a lot of dots.
So that's kind of weird.
We noticed this last
year, and we actually
could delete most of them.
And now you'll see that we have
one blue dot and one gray dot.
And so rather than shoving what
was about 30 different dots,
I think, times however many
totems were around the circle,
we then shrunk that image by
just modifying those gray dots
manually to make them
big, to make them lines.
And so that was a way we shrunk
that asset almost by half, just
by simplifying some
detail that didn't really
matter for users
looking at that tree
in the middle of their village.
The next thing we often look
at is things like storyboards.
And what does that mean?
So if we load up a different
asset-- in this case,
it's the road image that sits in
the back of our village here--
you'll see that while the
main part of the image
is to the right here, we have
this storyboard in the very
top left.
Now, as an engineer,
you might think, oh,
I should delete that.
It'll save me space.
But interestingly
enough, this is a case
where actually
getting rid of them
doesn't really
help you very much.
So these assets up here are all
found in the village itself.
And the way this SVG was
written is that this is actually
like a symbol.
So it's duplicated
in two places.
So if I delete this, which
is totally possible if I
go toggle clickthrough,
select, and delete,
you'll find that the exported
version doesn't really
get much smaller,
because it's really just
a duplication of that asset.
And that's a value that
SVG has in terms of mockup.
Unlike a PNG, that
doesn't take up space.
But it's something
that you can simplify,
but it doesn't really help you.
Another thing I want to call out
is that if I was to export this
image-- and this is
a complicated asset--
it's about 136k,
as we discovered,
it actually ends up
being about 1.5 meg.
So in this case, that
makes total sense.
This is a very
large asset, which
lives across the entire
site, and we use it
at multiple screen sizes.
So an SVG is perfect.
We really never want to
convert this to a PNG.
However, if you have very fine
detail, like small assets,
this is the case where
a PNG is really useful.
And this is the reason we use it
in a few places like [? new ?]
[? Today ?] cards, for
instance, are all PNGs,
because this has a lot of very
solid colors that is always
used at a one
consistent screen size.
So one last thing.
You can compress your SVGs.
You can use gzip to convert your
SVGs to an SVG Z file, which
kind of makes sense, right?
Your PNGs are
fundamentally compressed,
so why not your SVGs?
But the reality is is that
nearly every web server
is gzipping your files anyway.
And so most clients
will receive your files,
whether they be
HTML, PNG, or SVGs,
gzipped down, so there
are already fewer bytes
for your clients, anyway.
That was SVGs done with Santa
Tracker I'll see you next time.
You can subscribe to the
Google Chrome Developer channel
down here, or check out some
other great videos along here.
[BELLS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]